# User Personality and User Satisfaction with Recommender Systems

In this study, the authors show that individual users’ preferences for the level of diversity, popularity, and serendipity in recommendation lists cannot be inferred from their ratings alone. They demonstrate that can extract strong signals about individual preferences for recommendation diversity, popularity and serendipity by measuring their personality traits. They conducted an online experiment with over 1,800 users for six months on a live recommendation system. In this experiment, they asked users to evaluate a list of movie recommendations with different levels of diversity, popularity, and serendipity. Then, they assessed users’ personality traits using the Ten-item Personality Inventory (TIPI). They found that ratings-based recommender systems may often fail to deliver preferred levels of diversity, popularity, and serendipity for their users (e.g. users with high-serendipity preferences). They also found that users with different personalities have different preferences for these three recommendation properties. Your work suggests that they can improve user satisfaction when they integrate users’ personality traits into the process of generating recommendations.

In this section, I’ll build a network to classify the response of the user to the question `This list contains movies I think I enjoyed watching`.Users answered on the 5-point Likert scale. (1: Strongly Disagree, 5: Strongly Agree) Because I have many classes, this problem is an instance of multiclass classification; and because each data point should be classified into only one category, the problem is more specifically an instance of single-label, multiclass classification.
 
